# Tendermint Bug Bounty Program Launched! 

Since late 2017, Tendermint has had a [coordinated disclosure policy](https://tendermint.com/security) and an active security inbox open to anyone with a bug or security issue to report. As we [close in on the launch of our mainnet](https://blog.cosmos.network/latest-in-cosmos-critical-community-update-may-4350bc6cc25), we want to do more to actively reward people who invest their time and talent in finding bugs and potential vulnerabilities in our code. Today, we’re beyond excited to share that the [Tendermint bug bounty program is public on HackerOne](https://hackerone.com/tendermint/).

At times, security in emerging technology environments can seem like an overwhelming challenge: success is all about incremental improvements that move the needle forward, and sometimes teams have to break things in order to make them stronger and protect the people who use technology from malicious attackers. A bug bounty program is not a one-size-fits-all security solution that will work for every company, but it can be a great way for teams to refine their approach to attacker-defender dynamics while collaborating with talented hackers. When vulnerability rewards are designed to align researcher, developer, and security team incentives, they can be a powerful tool that drives the maturity of a product security program.

Over the next few months, our program scope and bounty rewards will actively grow and change as we continue to invest in the Tendermint ecosystem, hit important development milestones, and ship new features into the wild. As our security program evolves, we will update the scope of the program to include more and more of our code. And as we continue to build out the Cosmos SDK and launch Tendermint, our program rewards will increase to incentivize researchers to help us discover (and squish) the bugs in our code that we’d like to eliminate the most.

We’re always interested in creative bugs and vulnerabilities, especially memory allocation bugs, race conditions, timing attacks, information leaks, authentication bypasses, incorrect block validation, Denial of Service issues, lost write bugs, and payloads/transactions that cause panics. To learn more about our program and the rewards we’re offering for valid reports, check out our HackerOne program [here](https://hackerone.com/tendermint).

> Happy hacking!