# **A Conversation with Zaki Manian, Blockchain Pioneer**

Blockchain, the technological underpinning of cryptocurrency and fintech, is a hot topic. But it’s more than just the latest buzzword; the nascent technology promises to disrupt business, finance, and industry on a fundamental level.

However, blockchain continues to tread largely uncharted territory. It holds promise, but it has hardly reached its full potential. And as with any paradigm shift, rampant speculation and theories abound regarding its future.

I recently had the chance to sit down for a chat with Zaki, who is AMINO’s blockchain expert and part of the AMINO Crypto Fund. In addition to his work at AMINO, he currently serves as Executive Director at the [Trusted IoT Alliance](https://www.trusted-iot.org/), after having previously co-founded [Skuchain](http://www.skuchain.com/), of which AMINO Capital was the first outside investor since 2014. He is also currently an advisor for the Cosmos initiative, which aims to create a decentralized network of blockchains. Given his passion and expertise on the technical side of blockchain, I was curious to hear Zaki’s thoughts regarding the current state of blockchain, its future, and its consumer-facing implications.

**There is a lot of buzz about how blockchain will revolutionize the world, with monikers like “Web 3.0” and “Big Compute.” What are the biggest obstacles preventing that from happening right now?**

Let me begin by saying that all existing blockchains today should be understood to be useless: Bitcoin is useless, Ethereum is useless. The current generation of blockchain technology is just an early version — a prototype — of the future; the tech is maybe three to five years away from maturity.

The first question is: are there technical challenges where we fundamentally don’t know what to do, in terms of privacy and scalability? Or do we basically know what the answers are, and it’s just a matter of doing the engineering work? Prior to 2017, there were a lot of ideas about how to address these challenges, but there wasn’t enough funding to pursue any of them seriously. But one of the advantages of the madness that was last year is that enough credible people who’d been thinking about these issues for years were able to raise enough capital to pursue not just one potential solution, but essentially all possible solutions simultaneously.

**Do you anticipate any regulatory roadblocks hindering the widespread adoption of blockchain?**

The regulatory environment is actually quite permissive. People are spanning the spectrum when it comes to dealing with it, but as a practical matter, people can operate businesses across that spectrum. For example, take Binance and Coinbase. Binance has twice the users as Coinbase does, but Binance basically seeks the most permissive regulatory environment in the world. They’re aggressively pursuing regulatory arbitrage; they don’t tell anyone where their servers and developers are located, and CZ (*editor’s note:*Binance CEO and founder Zhao Changpeng) is constantly moving around. Now, the other side is Coinbase — and they say “we will comply with every single regulation,” like they will invent new regulations to comply with!

But it’s a sufficiently permissive environment, and I’d say the regulatory risk has been dropping dramatically over the last couple months. We’re ending up in a more permissive place than I would’ve anticipated.

**Many people associate blockchain technology solely with cryptocurrency. But blockchain has grown to encompass much more than that, as your work with Skuchain and the Trusted IoT Alliance has demonstrated. What are some of the most exciting implementations of blockchain that have yet to capture public attention?**

Blockchain’s ultimate purpose is the ability to enforce complex rules in an automated manner. In our current world, we basically have two kinds of rules: simple rules that potentially have automated enforcement, and complicated rules that are manually enforced. Blockchain leads to a world where we can embed these complicated rules in software… a world where these complex rules can manage real value, and in turn the rules can be fairly enforced. With blockchain, you can’t appeal to a higher authority, and you can’t easily cause the system to fault or deviate from its rules. This provides an unprecedented space in which we can design ways for human beings to cooperate and allocate resources. And so, I think blockchains are really about reimagining markets, and reimagining how people use markets to cooperate and accomplish tasks — that’s the fundamental.

**Blockchain, by nature, tends to be backend-oriented and thus not visible to the layman who isn’t well-versed in tech. What are its most significant consumer-facing implications?**

To begin with, blockchains are about a world where consumers have skin in the game. They are about a world where consumers hold potentially substantial portions of their networks in assets that exist within cryptographic programs, or distributed computing systems. By playing along with the rules, and by participating in these distributed systems, they gain wealth in their lives. And, by faulting or not cooperating, they lose wealth.

The question is, does anyone actually want to do this? My hypothesis is yes, because this is incredibly addictive…once you give people a taste of this, they won’t want to stop! I think that if you give people the right tools, blockchain will be fairly transformative. You’ve seen the number of people interested in running, say, hobbyist-scale miners; the number of people interested in running Cosmos validators; the scale at which people are interested in adopting these systems. They’re encouraging numbers, and they show that this idea of having skin in the game, being able to make money from participating and cooperating — from being part of the infrastructure of these systems — is pretty appealing to people.