#### Photons

The current planned proposal for the Cosmos Network is to [introduce a secondary token](https://blog.cosmos.network/cosmos-fee-token-introducing-the-photon-8a62b2f51aa) with the intent to be used to pay for fees in addition to the native staking token, atom. The idea is that by introducing a secondary fee token, currently called “photon”, the security of the network will be strengthened because it reduces the liquidity of atoms. The reasoning is that reducing the liquidity of atoms makes it harder for an attacker to obtain a large enough stake in the network to start an attack. The usage of atoms for staking purposes is further encouraged by dynamically inflating the atom supply based on the total amount of staked atoms as described above. Atoms minted in this way are distributed to validators and delegators that stake their atoms, effectively lowering the value of non-staked atoms in the process. The photon as a secondary token is [planned to be highly liquid and features an inflation rate that asymptotically reaches 0](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jtyYtx7t1xy9gxEi2T5lXFNd8xUY7bhJ/view). Newly created photons will be distributed to validators and delegators to reward their contribution. Validators will be able to charge commission on these rewards. As of this writing, whether the Cosmos Network will launch with photons at genesis remains an open issue to be resolved by voting on the Cosmos Hub.

#### Hard Spoon

The photon is likely to be distributed to atom and/or ether holders through a hard spoon, which is comparable to an airdrop, using a snapshot of the state of the Ethereum blockchain at a certain block height. This is achieved by creating a zone in the Cosmos Network specifically for the purpose of claiming photons. This zone mirrors the account balances of ether holders, which may then be transferred to other zones (e.g. Ethermint zones) to pay transaction fees in those zones. The process of this hard spoon is explained in some detail in the [official introductory blog post](https://blog.cosmos.network/introducing-the-hard-spoon-4a9288d3f0df). The hard spoon aims to incentivize ether users to migrate to the Cosmos Network to benefit from the higher performance of the network. Parameters of the hard spoon are planned to be subject to a governance vote, [where modalities of the hard spoon, e.g. the distribution between ether and atom holders and the inflation rate of photons, will be decided](https://cosmos.network/staking). Core questions around how the hard spoon will be executed and what the economic parameters around photons will be addressed after mainnet launch.

#### Commission Rates

To incentivize running a validator instead of only delegating atoms to a validator, validators will be able to charge commissions for the service they provide. Validators could set a commission rate of their choice, for example 15%, which by default is applied uniformly across all fees and block rewards (i.e. atoms and photons). Then, 85% of the revenues generated would go to the delegators and 15% would be retained by the validator for providing its service. Validators could compete on features, security, and commission rate, etc. Meanwhile, delegators could select those validators whose offer, services, and safety threshold most suited for them.

Validators can charge some variable commission rate on block rewards paid in atoms, photons and on transactions fees from whitelisted tokens. As of now, the default mode is a single commission rate for atom and photon block rewards, as well as transaction fees. However, if the community chooses to change this setting later for variable commission rates per fee token, the community can do so through governance.

#### Whitelisting Tokens

In addition to the two Cosmos tokens, atom and photon, there are plans to whitelist other cryptocurrencies (e.g. bitcoin or ether) for paying transaction fees on the network, once those tokens become available on the Cosmos Hub. Which tokens will be accepted will be decided through governance votes. The [token model paper](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos/blob/master/Cosmos_Token_Model.pdf) expands on these possibilities. Whitelisted tokens can be accepted as payment for fees with validators deciding upon how they value each of these tokens.